wow just one strand of hair can support
about three ounces
on average a person has about 150
000 strands and when your hair is
working as a team
it can support about 12 tons that's two
elephants
um not counting the peanuts your brain
generates electricity
and it'd be enough to light up a small
light bulb if you could only
figure out how it doesn't hurt to cut
your nails or hair
because the only part that's alive is
under the skin
also nails grow faster in summer than in
winter
even in places where there's not much
difference between the seasons
also nails grow faster on your riding
hand
probably because you use it more often
and that stimulates the nails more
it looks like the pinky finger is weak
but that's not true at all
without it you'd lose fifty percent of
your hand strength
it usually works together with your ring
finger to provide power
the other three are more for grabbing
stuff
oh and just like fingerprints your
tongue has a unique print too
but you can't use it to unlock your
phone at least not yet
also your tongue has a lot of fat in it
if you gain weight
your tongue does too there's acid in
your stomach that breaks down food
the acid is so strong that it could eat
right through a piece of wood
the total length of all blood vessels in
an adult is close to one hundred
thousand miles
that's four times around the equator in
your lifetime
you produce enough saliva to fill two
swimming pools
our ancestors needed goosebumps to make
their body hair stand on in
and scare away any bad guys we don't
need that anymore
but we still get them because we haven't
evolved enough yet to get rid of this
feature
now you probably never notice but you
mostly only breathe through one nostril
at a time
every few hours the nostrils switch jobs
that's why only one nostril gets stuffy
when you have the flu
most people think they have five senses
but that's not true
scientists don't yet know themselves but
they think there's more than twenty
their sight hearing touch smell and
taste
and there are other senses like time
hunger and thirst
then there's proprioception the sense of
where your body is in space
the brain can't always tell the
difference between intense happiness
and intense sadness it gets that you're
experiencing a very strong emotion
but sometimes it gets a bit confused
that's why you might cry
when you're very happy your eyes stay
about the same size your whole life
but your nose and ears don't that'd be
so weird
back in the day all humans had brown
eyes other eye colors developed as a
result of a random mutation
scientists think that while the first
humans appeared on earth around 6
million years ago
the first blue eyed person appeared only
10 000 years ago
so it's pretty likely that all blue-eyed
people on the planet
have the same ancestor uncle bob
all bones in the human body are
connected to each other
except one the hyoid bone is u-shaped
and located at the base of the tongue
holding it in place bones are stronger
than steel
a strong healthy bone could in theory
handle the weight of five pickup trucks
still they're not the strongest body
part
the strongest is tooth enamel it's made
of a bunch of different materials that
make it damage resistant
teeth live a long time lasting for
hundreds of years
but of course you still need to take
care of them
they're the only body part that can't
heal itself
your heart works non-stop and beats
around 3
billion times over the course of your
lifetime
just like your heart your tongue never
takes a vacation
even when you sleep it helps push saliva
down your throat
by the way where do you rest your tongue
if you keep it on the bottom
of your mouth you're doing it wrong this
posture might lead to some neck and jaw
pain
if you keep it jammed up against your
teeth you're doing it wrong too
it can cause your teeth to shift and
might lead to a bad
bite instead try to keep it sort of
halfway
about a half an inch away from your
teeth
now we can't breathe and swallow at the
same time
that's because whatever we swallow and
the air we breathe
travel down the same path at least at
first
it's like there's a little guy directing
traffic down there
your eyes can breathe the cornea is the
only body part that doesn't have a
direct blood supply
it gets oxygen right from the air that's
why when it's dry outside
your eyes might get a bit itchy
everyone dreams some people say they've
never dreamt
a night in their life but they just
never remember any of their dreams
some scientists think that the dreaming
stage is followed by an
active forgetting stage it's probably
because dreams aren't exactly full of
important information
and our brain needs to clean up some
extra space for something more useful
those who are lucky enough to remember
their dreams still end up forgetting
about half within 5 minutes of waking up
and after 10 minutes it's usually gone
for good
when you blush the lining of your
stomach turns red too
it happens because blood starts to flow
around more when you're embarrassed
as your body gets ready for something
stressful to happen
your face and stomach lining get more of
it turning them red
also humans are the only animals who can
blush or at least the only ones where
you can see it so obviously
during one lifetime the average human
grows 590 miles of hair
the average man if he never shaved would
have a 30 foot long beard
hair grows a little faster in warm
climates because heat stimulates faster
circulation in our bodies
everything you'd ever need to know about
you is all written down
in one strand of hair from a single hair
a scientist could tell you what you've
been eating your whole life
and what kind of environment you've
lived in on
average one human eats their way through
000 pounds of food in one lifetime
that's like
10 big hippos worth of food lips are one
of the most
sensitive parts of the human body they
have loads of nerve endings
even more than your fingers also lip
skin is very thin
so you can actually see the blood
capillaries inside
that's why lips are red or pink unlike
the rest of your body
lips are also very sensitive to sun
damage so remember to apply sunscreen on
them
it'll help to preserve their health and
fullness over time
in addition to your fingerprints your
iris and your tongue
your lips are also unique the total
surface of your lungs
is about the same as a tennis court
coughs and sneezes are
real fast travelers a cough can get up
to 50 miles per hour
a sneeze is even faster almost 100 miles
per hour
unless you use your fingers to help you
it's impossible to sneeze with your eyes
open
scientists don't really know what's
going on there some say it's just a
reflex
so you can't control it others think it
happens to shield your eyes from
whatever's flying out all humans
literally glow the light comes from your
body heat
it's actually a thousand times less
intense than you're capable of seeing
but still awesome
the largest flash drive in the world is
actually your brain
well anyone's brain the neurons in it
combine together in such a way
that your storage capacity is about a
million gigabytes
it's enough to hold three million hours
of movies
that's like a 300 year long movie night
hey
pass the popcorn you start feeling
thirsty when you lose about one percent
of your body weight
if you lose five percent you might even
feel like fainting
fingers don't have muscles that make
them move the muscles that do that
are located in the palm and the forearm
the word muscle actually comes from the
old latin word for mouse
that's what the romans thought their
biceps looked like
on average in their lifetime a person
walks about 110
000 miles that's four times the distance
around our planet
or half the distance from the earth to
the moon so
remember to wear comfortable shoes